AIは原生的疎外を感じるか？
Does automatic intelligence feel original alienation?
Spürt die automatische Intelligenz eine ursprüngliche Entfremdung?

Weyl’s thesis that objective reality cannot be grasped directly, but only through the use of symbols.

Weyl offers the natural numbers “by which we count objects” as “the simplest, and in a certain sense most profound, example of symbolic construction.” He continues:

    The most natural symbols for them are strokes, one put after the other, |, ||, |||, … . The objects may disperse, “melt, thaw and resolve themselves into dew,” but we thus can keep the record of their number. What is more, we can by a constructive process decide for two numbers represented through symbols which one is the larger, namely by checking one symbol against the other, stroke by stroke. This process reveals differences not manifest in direct observation, which in most cases is incapable of distinguishing even between such low numbers as 21 and 22. We are so familiar with these miracles which the number symbols perform that we no longer wonder at them. But this is only the prelude to the mathematical step proper. We do not leave it to chance which numbers we actually meet by counting this or that concrete set of objects, but we generate the open sequence of all possible numbers which starts with 1 (or 0 = nothing) and proceeds by adding to any number symbol n

one more stroke, whereby it changes into the following number n+1. Being is thus projected onto the background of the possible, more precisely onto a manifold of possibilities which unfolds by iterating the same step again and again and remains open into infinity. (Weyl 1985, 12–13.)

https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomtaulli/2020/11/27/turing-test-at-70-still-relevant-for-ai-artificial-intelligence/?sh=a703ec250fff

The Turing Test was quite ingenious because there was no need to define “intelligence,” which is fraught with complexities. Even today this concept is far from clear-cut.

Over the years, other tests have emerged. According Druhin Bala, who is the CEO and co-founder of getchefnow.com, there are:

    The Marcus Test: In which a program watches a television show and is asked meaningful questions about the show's content.
    The Lovelace Test 2.0: Where you detect AI through an ability to create art.
    Total Turing Test: Where the questioner can also test perceptual abilities as well as the ability to manipulate objects.

Zach Mayer, who is the Vice President of Data Science at DataRobot. “It's an important milestone for machine intelligence, and GPT-3 is very close to passing it. And yet, as we pass this milestone, I think it's also clear that GPT-3 is nowhere near human-level intelligence. I think discovering another ‘Turing Test’ for AI will illuminate the next step on our journey towards understanding human intelligence."

    12-28-20
The Turing Test is obsolete. It’s time to build a new barometer for AI
Rohit Prasad (VP and head scientist of Amazon Alexa AI)
This year marks 70 years since Alan Turing published his paper introducing the concept of the Turing Test in response to the question, “Can machines think?” The test’s goal was to determine if a machine can exhibit conversational behavior indistinguishable from a human. Turing predicted that by the year 2000, an average human would have less than a 70% chance of distinguishing an AI from a human in an imitation game where who is responding—a human or an AI—is hidden from the evaluator.

Certainly, the Turing Test is one way to measure Alexa’s intelligence—but is it consequential and relevant to measure Alexa’s intelligence that way?

the Turing Test doesn’t take into account AI’s increasing ability to use sensors to hear, see, and feel the outside world. Instead, it’s limited simply to text.

Instead of obsessing about making AIs indistinguishable from humans, our ambition should be building AIs that augment human intelligence and improve our daily lives in a way that is equitable and inclusive. A worthy underlying goal is for AIs to exhibit human-like attributes of intelligence—including common sense, self-supervision, and language proficiency—and combine machine-like efficiency such as fast searches, memory recall, and accomplishing tasks on your behalf. The end result is learning and completing a variety of tasks and adapting to novel situations, far beyond what a regular person can do.

This focus informs current research into areas of AI that truly matter—sensory understanding, conversing, broad and deep knowledge, efficient learning, reasoning for decision-making, and eliminating any inappropriate bias or prejudice (i.e. fairness). 

n fact, when we launched the Alexa Prize in 2016, we had intense debate on how the competing “socialbots” should be evaluated. Are we trying to convince people that the socialbot is a human, deploying a version of the Turing Test? Or, are we trying to make the AI worthy of conversing naturally to advance learning, provide entertainment, or just a welcome distraction?

prioritizes methods that allow AIs to exhibit humor and empathy where appropriate, all without pretending to be a human.

None of this is to denigrate Turing’s original vision—Turing’s “imitation game” was designed as a thought experiment, not as the ultimate test for useful AI. However, now is the time to dispel the Turing Test and get inspired by Alan Turing’s bold vision to accelerate progress in building AIs that are designed to help humans.

https://www.amazon.science/latest-news/does-the-turing-test-pass-the-test-of-time
Ström: “The resolution of Moravec's paradox. Machine learning and, in particular, deep learning, is now enabling us to solve sensorimotor tasks in robotics, and sensory tasks such as object recognition and speech recognition. Yet general intelligence is still a hard, largely unsolved, problem. I also think Turing would be fascinated by quantum computers.”
